Welcome back.
In this video I want to run through the entire syllabus.
Of course we're not going to talk about things in much detail but I do want to introduce you to everything
we're going to talk about.
And there's quite a bit as you can see this is a very long course lots material very comprehensive to
start off.
We do our course basics which is where you are right now.
It's definitely the least substantial unit in this entire course.
It discovers things about the syllabus and how the Course works and gives you some advice and then we
really get going with introduction to front end.
So we talk about what front end development is what back in development is how they're different what
HDMI is what CSSA is what javascript is.
But you still don't write a whole lot of code until this unit when we actually talk about aged him out
.
So there are two units on each team all introduction and intermediate aged him out and then once you've
finished that and move on to see assess which is how we can make things look nice we add some style
.
So that's where the projects start to get a little more exciting.
Have you make an image gallery for photography portfolio site and we also have you make a blog site
so to units on CSSA intro and advanced.
We talk about things like typography fonts including custom fonts using Google fonts forms validations
lots of topics.
Then we talk about Bootstrap which is a C S S and Javascript framework that helps to make nice looking
Web sites really quickly and easily.
And in that unit we make a few projects including a portfolio site and a startup landing page or a home
page for a startup.
Then we hit javascript and that's where things in my opinion at least start to get really interesting
and exciting.
We start talking about our first real programming language javascript so we start with the basics and
there's a lot to talk about with javascript so you can see pretty much takes up from here down to the
end.
Everything involves javascript and to be fair Everything involves H-2 mounts assess as well but javascript
becomes the focus.
That's how we start making robust Web applications not just simple web sites.
And I'll expand on that difference in the next unit.
But let's keep moving.
So jobs for basics.
Then we talk about something called control flow which is how we add basic logic into our applications
with Job scripts.
And then something called functions javascript arrays and objects to different data structures.
And then we move on to my favorite topic which is dominant emulation which is how we actually interact
with each team around to assess using javascript.
So some of you that might just be a bunch of random words you've never heard in your life or that you
can't really make sense of.
Basically it's how we start making things exciting.
When I click on a page something happens we can start changing colors animating things moving things
across the screen.
It's very visual and fun.
Then we have another unit on Dom events which is some other dumb manipulation that we can focus on.
And then we have a color game project which is a substantial and pretty complex game that we make together
.
It's an entire unit it's eight or nine videos creating this game.
So it's it's a pretty legit project.
And then we move on to a really popular library called Jay Querrey and we focus on that forward three
units introduction to Jay Querrey advanced Jay query and then we build a really nice looking responsive
to do this project together so that Sokoto along as well.
It's an entire unit seven or eight videos there too.
And then we have a big switch so everything up until this point excluding the first course basics unit
talks about front end web development which we talk about what that means and what the differences front
and back and full stack.
All that stuff in the next unit.
But I'll just point out this is all front end.
This is all back.
So right here there is a big line where things shift.
So we moved back and we start by talking about the very basics just like we did appear for front it
.
So what is the back and what are the different things that are involved.
We talked we had some diagrams we draw some things out and I show you some examples of sites and how
the back end is set up on some popular Web sites and then we talk about the command line.
How do you navigate through the command line or the terminal.
What are the different commands you enter.
Definitely the most tacker looking thing that we cover.
If you've ever seen like a stereotypical hacker scene in a movie they're usually typing things into
the command line.
So we will be talking about that and using that for the rest of the course.
Then we talk about no G-S and this is an introduction to no.
Yes.
And then an introduction to express which is a node framework that we'll be using again and no that's
just a bunch of words but it's a node framework will be using to create our Web applications.
And we continue with those two things for the rest of the course.
So then we talk about intermedia express basically some more advanced topics and then we get to something
different.
Yo camp basics and you'll notice there's a few different instances of Yotam the UPCAT basics you know
camp data persistence you know camp comments you have camp adding art and you know camp cleaning up
and you know camp definitely starts to sound weird after you repeat it enough times.
But what it is is a complex application that we create together and it's one that we keep revisiting
.
So rather than one off small projects where it's really hard to get to something substantial with just
one unit or just a few videos this is a big project that we continually revisit and don't worry we have
plenty of shorter smaller projects.
I'm a really strong believer that you should start by seeing a small instance of something working making
a small project and then apply it to something big so that you get both end to that spectrum.
You're not just thrown into the deep end immediately making a huge project but you're also not stuck
making these tiny toys for your entire course.
I want you to have something that you can be proud of and something that is really really complex by
the end of the course.
So yo camp is a yelp like clone for campground campsites and outdoor activities so you can create campgrounds
have photos leave comments all sorts of fun things log in authentication.
We talked about authorization and every time we learn a new feature we go added into UPCAT.
So we start there you know camp basics.
That's the first time we see the app and we set up the very basic structure.
Then we talk about databases and we talk about Mongo DB which is the particular database that we'll
use and we make a small project there and then we go back to camp and add in Mangu D-B so that we now
have a database connected to Brokamp and then we talk about a really important topic called restful
routing.
This is an architecture it's a way of planning our applications a pattern that we follow called rest
and we build a nice looking blog app using restful routes and a new CSSA javascript framework called
semantic UI which is similar to bootstrap which we learn earlier in the course right here.
And the idea there is just to expose you to another technology.
Another popular framework.
Hopefully you start to see some of the similarities and draw some comparisons there.
Then we move on to one of the more important Unix Database associations.
So how do we have multiple things in our database that are connected like users and comments or blog
posts and comments and tags and votes and how are they all interrelated and connected to one another
.
And then we go back to camp and we add in comments.
So we'll learn about database associations in a smaller project and then we added in the UPCAT then
we move on to authentication user log in signing up signing out and locking in all of that.
Using a tool called passport.
Yes and we add that into our own application.
We make an application with log in a smaller application and then just like before we go back to your
camp and we add in authentication so that you now have to log in and log out to use the UPCAT or at
least to use some features.
And then we have another unit of our camp where at this point we've covered so much that we need to
go back and clean some things up refactor which basically means move some code around rewrite some code
so that it's cleaner shorter more modular so you'll see exactly what I mean in that unit.
But it's devoted to reorganizing this large app because at that point it's gotten very large and then
we talk about authorization which is another important topic which is basically user permissions.
Different levels of things that users are allowed to do.
So authentication is just letting people log in.
Authorization is making sure that when I'm logged in I can only delete photos that belong to me or edit
comments that I created I can't screw with somebody else's comments or someone else's posts unless I
have permission to do that.
So we talk about how that works.
And we added into our camp.
There's definitely a lot of stuff that we cover a lot of technologies.
But the key point is that we go through this in a very logical and well-thought out order.
I've taught all of these technologies multiple times over to tons different classes different students
.
It's much less intimidating that it might seem you don't have to be thinking ahead the entire time.
But what I will do rather than just going straight ahead and just doing one unit at a time.
We do have certain lectures that are optional these lessons that are looking ahead and looking back
.
So basically at certain points in the course I'll take a moment to say here's what we've covered here's
where ever going so that you can start to have a mental map of of where we are.
Often I found that students get lost sometimes and they don't have a big picture vision in their head
of where they are.
They just put their head down and focus on what's immediately in front of them.
So that is important but it's also important to come up for air occasionally and talk about where we've
come and how much further we have to go and basically draw that line.
OK.
So there's a lot of really exciting material lots of fun projects if we get to.
Let's go ahead and get started by talking about an introduction to front and web development